Abstract
Background
For service companies, it is essential to deliver good customer service to stay competitive out 
in the market. Customer needs are changing over time and there are different needs for 
different customer groups. Companies of today are in constant need of figuring out new ways 
to keep their customers loyal and at the same time keep up with their competitors. 
Because of different needs and different type of customers it is important for companies to be 
aware of their different customer groups. A customer segmentation can be done to 
differentiate customers from each other. By making a customer segmentation, customers can 
be divided into different groups based on different characteristics and they can be 
distinguished from each other. This enable companies to easier meet the customer needs and 
use different marketing strategies for different customers. Where this study focuses on the 
issue of customer segmentation in services.

Problem description
Customers are of different character and have different needs. Therefore, it is not optimal to 
have same strategy and marketing for every customer. For a company, it is important to 
segment their customers and identify the differences between the customer segments to easier 
meet the customer needs and take care of those customers who are of high importance for the 
company

Benefits of Customer Segmentation
At the expansion stage, executing a marketing strategy without any 
knowledge of how your target market is segmented is akin to firing shots at a 
target 100 feet away — while blindfolded. The likelihood of hitting the target is 
a matter of luck more than anything else.
Without a deep understanding of how a company’s best current customers 
are segmented, a business often lacks the market focus needed to allocate 
and spend its precious human and capital resources efficiently. Furthermore, 
a lack of best current customer segment focus can cause diffused go-tomarket and product development strategies that hamper a company’s ability 
to fully engage with its target segments. Together, all of those factors can 
ultimately impede a company’s growth.

If best current customer segmentation is done right, however, the business 
benefits are numerous. For example, a best current customer segmentation 
exercise can tangibly impact your operating results by:
1. Improving your whole product: Having a clear idea of who wants to buy 
your product and what they need it for will help you differentiate your 
company as the best solution for their individual needs. The result will be 
increased satisfaction and better performance against competitors. The 
benefits also extend beyond your core product offering, since any insights 
into your best customers will allow your organization to offer better 
customer support, professional services, and any other offerings that 
make up their whole product experience.
2. Focusing your marketing message: In parallel with improvements to the 
product, conducting a customer segmentation project can help you 
develop more focused marketing messages that are customized to each of 
your best segments, resulting in higher quality inbound interest in your 
product.
3. Allowing your sales organization to pursue higher percentage
opportunities: By spending less time on less lucrative opportunities and 
more on your most successful segments, your sales team will be able to 
increase its win rate, cover more ground, and ultimately increase 
revenues.
4. Getting higher quality revenues: Not all revenue dollars are created 
equal. Sales into the wrong segment can be more expensive to sell and 
maintain, and may have a higher churn rate or lower upsell potential after 
the initial purchase has been made. Staying away from these types of 
customers and focusing on better ones will increase your margins and 
promote the stability of your customer base.

How K-Means Algorithm Works
The k-means clustering algorithm works by finding like groups based on 
Euclidean distance, a measure of distance or similarity. The practitioner 
selects kk groups to cluster, and the algorithm finds the best centroids for 
the kk groups. The practitioner can then use those groups to determine which 
factors group members relate. For customers, these would be their buying 
preferences.K-Means clustering intends to partition n objects into k clusters in which each 
object belongs to the cluster with the nearest mean. This method produces 
exactly k different clusters of greatest possible distinction. The best number of 
clusters k leading to the greatest separation (distance) is not known as a priori 
and must be computed from the data. The objective of K-Means clustering is 
to minimize total intra-cluster variance, or, the squared error function: 

Algorithm
1. Clusters the data into k groups where k is predefined.
2. Select k points at random as cluster centres.
3. Assign objects to their closest cluster centre according to the Euclidean 
distance function.
4. Calculate the centroid or mean of all objects in each cluster.
5. Repeat steps 2, 3 and 4 until the same points are assigned to each 
cluster in consecutive rounds.

K-Means is relatively an efficient method. However, we need to specify the 
number of clusters, in advance and the final results are sensitive to 
initialization and often terminates at a local optimum. Unfortunately there is no 
global theoretical method to find the optimal number of clusters. A practical 
approach is to compare the outcomes of multiple runs with different k and 
choose the best one based on a predefined criterion. In general, a large k 
probably decreases the error but increases the risk of over fitting.
